haha it's that moment when you've
reached a new level in your fav game
glorious victory but instead of
continuing to play you run to the
nearest power outlet to charge your
phone is there something you can do to
be less charge dependent well let's see
don't use antivirus your Android already
has virus protection adding another
after that will only drain the battery
just don't brow sketchy sites or
download apps outside of the official
store and you're good
[Music]
optimize your apps if you have many apps
but don't actually need all those push
notifications restrict background
battery use to do it go to settings and
find a list of your apps now click on
the one you want to limit go to battery
usage and make sure background running
is turned off turn on airplane mode in
bad service areas spotty reception makes
your phone work overtime it keeps
searching for a tower constantly sending
signals every time the phone fails to
make a connection it has to send the
signal again using more battery power so
go to airplane mode or switch to Wi-Fi
don't overuse your camera focusing on an
image or recording a video with audio
put your phone under strain and takes a
toll on the battery switch to airplane
mode what do you want to use the camera
to give your phone a break from all
other tasks stop auto sync for your
Google account if you don't need your
Google account to be updated every 15
minutes tap on settings and find
accounts or user and accounts depending
on your phone and disable auto sync turn
off Bluetooth when this feature is on it
requires power to constantly search for
other devices and if you don't need
Bluetooth why make your phone lose
precious power
use dark mode hmm many apps now allow
you to choose a black background instead
of the standard bright one some androids
even have an option of setting
system-wide dark mode black pixels use
less power so making the switch will
have a battery saving effect keep your
phone from getting cold and hot your
battery doesn't like temperature
extremes because they can mess up all
sorts of chemical reactions happening
inside it and as a result you get a
phone that doesn't hold a charge well so
don't leave your phone in the car and
winter and turn it off when you're out
and about on a scorching summer day turn
off vibration you make your phone do
twice the work if it vibrates in
addition to ringing also you can save a
bit of battery power by turning off that
little vibe your phone gives off every
time you press virtual keys check
location tracking apps apps like maps or
taxi services really need to know your
location to work properly but many
others just have Geo locator enabled by
default look up what apps have location
permission and turn it off if it's
unnecessary
don't close background apps background
apps aren't active and don't use much
power but if you manually close them and
after some time open them again your
phone has to spend more energy to do so
do it only if you need to restart an
unresponsive app restart your phone
regularly if you don't the phone's
random access memory or Ram get stuffed
with unnecessary data storing this data
not only eats your battery but also
makes your Android slower reboot your
gadget at least once a week
[Music]
disable bloatware bloatware our apps
that come pre-installed on a new phone
they use a memory and battery as well if
you don't need them simply go to
settings applications choose the app and
click disable after that you'll get a
scary warning pop-up but never mind it
and press disable one more time charge
the phone in a car wisely a cars lighter
port provides 12 volts of power while
your phone only needs 5 volts to charge
so of course you use an adapter to
regulate the voltage but if the adapter
is acting up or made by a dubious
manufacturer the battery can get too
much power and it'll wreak havoc tone
down your display the brighter your
screen the more battery power is used
you can either choose auto mode or
change it manually to gain more battery
life besides a dimmer screen will save
your eyes from strain and dryness get
rid of power-hungry apps some apps take
too much power wasting the battery to
find them check the battery usage
regularly delete those apps and choose
simpler alternatives if possible or you
can try premium versions of the apps you
use the most
they don't have pop-up ads which makes
them use less power shortened screen
time out usually the screen will
automatically turn off after 1 to 2
minutes of being idle now just count how
many minutes a day your display works
uselessly shortening the screen time out
will save your battery a lot of juice
try light versions of apps many popular
apps have battery friendly versions that
consume less energy and data in most
cases you won't notice any difference if
you switch to them but your phone will
get an easier life for sure
cut down visual effects in most cases
displays empty your battery faster than
anything else so if you have a lot of
widgets you're likely to charge your
phone more plus if you have an OLED or
AMOLED screen use a simple black
wallpaper to save the battery
don't let apps update automatically when
your phone has this feature on it keeps
looking for updates and starts
downloading it right away when one is
available that auto update means a lot
of activity is going on and taking away
precious battery juice turn it off and
start updating apps manually don't put
off system updates operating system
updates help your phone and battery
perform better by fixing different
issues don't charge your phone overnight
despite the common myth you can't
actually overcharge your battery if you
leave it plugged in for long but when
the phone reaches 100% and stops getting
charged it loses a tiny bit of juice
naturally and starts getting it again
the whole night the device is trapped in
this loop which reduces phone capacity
over time don't use the phone as a
hotspot well it's so convenient to have
a handy Wi-Fi router but your phone
spends a lot of charge
turning a 3G or 4G connection into
internet access for your laptop don't
use the phone during charging as you've
probably noticed your phone gets warmer
when it's plugged in if you keep
watching videos or playing games it's
bound to get hotter and I've just told
you the heat is never good for the
battery weren't you paying attention of
course you were
don't use fast charge often this option
is so tempting when you're in a hurry
but if you do it all the time your
battery will eventually lose its
capacity your phone works so hard for
you it deserves a good old-school
charging sesh be kind to your phone and
it'll be kind to you
or something like that
[Music]